heroku-guide.md, before:

# Heroku Guide

- [Hosting from source](#hosting-from-source)
  - [Prerequisites](#hosting-from-source-prerequisites)
    - [Software](#hosting-from-source-software)
  - [AvaIre](#hosting-from-source-avaire)
    - [Updating with Heroku](#hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy)
    - [Updating with Backstroke](#hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-backstroke)
      - [Small note](#hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-note)
  - [Watchdog](#hosting-from-source-watchdog)
    - [Deploy method](#hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy)
      - [Small note](#hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy-note)
- [Hosting from a jar](#hosting-from-a-jar)
  - [Prerequisites](#hosting-from-a-jar-prerequisites)
    - [Software](#hosting-from-a-jar-software)
  - [AvaIre](#hosting-from-a-jar-avaire)
  - [Watchdog](#hosting-from-a-jar-watchdog)
- [Troubleshooting](#trouble-shooting)

<a name="hosting-from-source"></a>
## Hosting from source
> {tip} When you choose to host from source, it's recommended to get a GitHub account, as you can use this to fork the repo and keep AvaIre up to date more easily. 

<a name="hosting-from-source-prerequisites"></a>
### Prerequisites

> {tip} This guide assumes you already have a basic understanding of how Heroku works, how to fill in the config.yml file/environment variables and that you have a Heroku account.
>
> It's however not required to have a credit card linked to it, but it's recommended so you have enough hours to keep AvaIre working throughout the month.

<a name="hosting-from-source-software"></a>
#### Software
 * No software is actually needed. Everything is done through the browser.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire"></a>
### AvaIre
When, using AvaIre from source, you are able to use the deploy button, and still have full control over the source, allowing you to make your own changes.
However, updating is slightly more complicated, as you need to make sure to get the changes to Heroku. There is a solution to this where we get back to in a bit.

Navigate to [AvaIre's repo](https://github.com/avaire/avaire) and click on the **deploy to Heroku** button.

After you're done filling in the environment variables, you can click on deploy. After your AvaIre is deployed on Heroku, click on Manage App.

Now you've successfully configured AvaIre on Heroku. You can see her logs by clicking on: **More** on the top right, followed by clicking on **View logs**. If you want to turn off AvaIre, click on **Resources**, followed by clicking on the pen, clicking on the toggle, and clicking on **confirm**.

By default, Heroku starts both the web and worker dynos. This is not necessary and will use up your hours very quickly. Choose which dyno you want to use and turn off the dyno you don't want to use. The web dyno has the AvaIre API enabled, but puts itself to sleep after 30 minutes; The worker dyno stays on forever, but does not work with the AvaIre API.

To keep AvaIre up-to-date, go to [AvaIre's main repo](https://github.com/avaire/avaire) and click on **Fork**. Once it has been forked, go to your repo's settings and turn on the issues feature. This is to notify you of any merge conflicts if you're using Heroku Scheduler to update. 

Now go back to Heroku and click on **deploy** followed by clicking on **Connect to GitHub**, and login if necessary. Click on **Search** and connect the repo that you just forked.

Make sure the right branch is chosen (master in this case). You can click on **Enable Automatic Deploys**.

To make sure everything is still working, click on **Deploy Branch**, to start deploying from your own fork.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy"></a>
#### Updating with Heroku
> {tip} This part assumes you have a GitHub account, as well as a _working_ AvaIre hosted on Heroku.

Once deployment is successful, you need to create a [personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens) with public_repo permissions so Heroku can automatically update your repo. Once you create your personal access token, copy it to the GITHUB_SECRET_TOKEN variable in your Heroku app settings.

When that's done, copy part of the link to your main repo after `https://github.com/` (e.g `chaNcharge/avaire`) and paste it to the GITHUB_REPO environment variable in your Heroku app settings.

Then, go to Heroku Scheduler add-on settings by clicking on its link.

Add a new job, and set the command to `./update.sh`. You can change the other settings to your preference.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-backstroke"></a>
#### Updating with Backstroke
> {tip} This part assumes you have a GitHub account, as well as a _working_ AvaIre hosted on Heroku. This option is recommended if you want to manually review changes before updating.

Once deployment is successful, go to [backstroke.co](https://backstroke.co/) and login with GitHub.

Click on **Create Link** and give your link a nice name.

For the Upstream fill in: `avaire/avaire`, and choose the master branch.

Choose One fork, and fill in your username with the forked repo. For example: Macley-Kun/avaire, with the branch master.

Click on Save. You can click on Resync to manually start synching the upstream repo, with your fork. Any commits that are merged into the upstream, will come as a pull request from backstrokebot to your fork.
If you would like to update to the latest version, you only have to merge the pull request by going to your fork from time to time, click on **Merge pull request**, followed by clicking on **Confirm merge**, in less then a minute, Heroku will pick up the changes and re-deploy.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-note"></a>
#### Small note
If you changed some files in your fork, it's possible that you will have a merge conflict. If you are using Heroku Scheduler to update, an issue will be automatically created under your name in your repo's issue tracker. You have to manually fix this yourself by following the tips/FAQ GitHub gives you and merge it manually through the command line or GitHub desktop app.

<a name="hosting-from-source-watchdog"></a>
### Watchdog
When using Watchdog from source, you are able to use the deploy button, and still have full control over the source of Watchdog. Allowing you to make your own changes. You are however not able to change the source of AvaIre.

However, updating is slightly more complicated, as you need to make sure to get the changes to Heroku. There is a solution to this where we get back to in a bit.
As Watchdog downloads AvaIre.jar after it detects it's missing. This method will always give you the latest versions, without any hassle. Watchdog itself however still would lack updating itself.

Navigate to [Watchdog's main repo](https://github.com/avaire/watchdog) and click on the **deploy to Heroku** button.
After you're done filling in the environment variables, you can click on **deploy**. After your Watchdog instance is deployed on Heroku, click on **Manage App**.

Now you've successfully configured Watchdog on Heroku. You can see her logs by click on: **More** on the top right, followed by clicking on **View logs**.

If you want to turn off Watchdog, click on **Resources**, followed by clicking on the **pen**, then clicking on the button, and lastly click on **confirm**.

<a name="hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy"></a>
#### Deploy method
> {tip} This part assumes you have a GitHub account, as well as a _working_ AvaIre hosted on Heroku.

To keep Watchdog up-to-date, after following the above method, go to [Watchdog's main repo](https://github.com/avaire/watchdog) and click on **Fork**.

Now go back to Heroku and click on **deploy** followed by clicking on **Connect to GitHub**, and login if necessary. Click on **Search** and connect the repo that you just forked.

Make sure the right branch is chosen (master in this case). You can click on **Enable Automatic Deploys**.

To make sure everything is still working, click on **Deploy Branch**, to start deploying from your own fork.

Once deployment is successful, go to [backstroke.co](https://backstroke.co/) and login with GitHub.

Click on **Create Link** and give your link a nice name.

For the Upstream fill in: `avaire/watchdog`, and choose the master branch.

Choose One fork, and fill in your username with the forked repo. For example: Macley-Kun/watchdog, with the branch master.

Click on Save. You can click on Resync to manually start synching the upstream repo, with your fork. Any commits that are merged into the upstream, will come as a pull request from backstrokebot to your fork.
If you would like to update to the latest version, you only have to merge the pull request by going to your fork from time to time, click on **Merge pull request**, followed by clicking on **Confirm merge**, in less then a minute, Heroku will pick up the changes and re-deploy.

<a name="hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy-note"></a>
#### Small note
If you changed some files in your fork, it's possible that you will have a merge conflict. You have to manually fix this yourself by following the tips/FAQ GitHub gives you on that pull and merging it manually through the command line or GitHub desktop app.

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar"></a>
## Hosting from a jar

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-prerequisites"></a>
### Prerequisites

> {tip} This guide assumes you already have a basic understanding of how Heroku works, and how to fill in the config.yml file/environment variables.
>
> It's also required that you have a Heroku account.
> 
> It's however not required to have a credit card linked to it, but it's recommended so you have enough hours to keep AvaIre working throughout the month.

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-software"></a>
#### Software

 * [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
 * [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#download-and-install)

> {tip} Make sure to [set a username in git](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-your-username-in-git/), as well as to login [into the Heroku CLI tool](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#getting-started).

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-avaire"></a>
### AvaIre

First, download the [AvaIre.jar](https://avairebot.com/nightly-build.jar), the [config.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/avaire/master/src/main/resources/config.yml) and the [Procfile](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/avaire/master/Procfile).
Put these all in a folder, then open within this folder git bash/commandprompt. Do the following to create a heroku application, set the buildpacks, etc.
```
git init
heroku apps:create NAMEHEROKUAPP --region eu
heroku addons:create jawsdb:kitefin
heroku buildpacks:set heroku/jvm
```
Replace NAMEHEROKUAPP with a name you like, lowercase only. Optionally you change the region to `us` if that's closer to your servers.

You can ether fill in the config.yml file, or set the env variables yourself by using:
`heroku config:set AVA_NAMEVARIABLE=VALUEVARIABLE`

So for setting the token, you would type in:
`heroku config:set AVA_DISCORD_TOKEN=myt0ken`

Here is [the list of all the environment variables AvaIre uses](https://github.com/avaire/avaire/blob/master/app.json).

To push your changes, do the following in the same terminal:
```
git add .
git commit -am "First commit!"
git push heroku master
```

Whenever you change some of the files, you only have to repeat the above part.

You can start AvaIre by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=1`

And stop her by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=0`

To tail the logs trough the terminal you can type in:
`heroku logs --tail`

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-watchdog"></a>
### Watchdog

First, download the [Watchdog.jar](https://github.com/avaire/watchdog/releases), the [config.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/avaire/master/src/main/resources/config.yml) and the [Procfile](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/watchdog/master/Procfile).
Put these all in a folder, then open within this folder git bash/commandprompt. Do the following to create a heroku application, set the buildpacks, etc.
```
git init
heroku apps:create NAMEHEROKUAPP --region eu
heroku addons:create jawsdb:kitefin
heroku buildpacks:set heroku/jvm
```
Replace NAMEHEROKUAPP with a name you like, lowercase only. Optionally you change the region to `us` if that's closer to your servers.

You can ether fill in the config.yml file, or set the env variables yourself by using:
`heroku config:set AVA_NAMEVARIABLE=VALUEVARIABLE`

So for setting the token, you would type in:
`heroku config:set AVA_DISCORD_TOKEN=myt0ken`

Here is [the list of all the environment variables AvaIre uses](https://github.com/avaire/avaire/blob/master/app.json).

To push your changes, do the following in the same terminal:
```
git add .
git commit -am "First commit!"
git push heroku master
```

Whenever you change some of the files, you only have to repeat the above part.

You can start Watchdog by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=1`

And stop Watchdog by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=0`

To tail the logs trough the terminal you can type in:
`heroku logs --tail`

<a name="trouble-shooting"></a>
## Troubleshooting
 * Make sure you are logged in. You can log in with the `heroku login` command.
 * You can find your logs by typing: heroku logs --tail. It's recommended to start logging before pushing/start your app.
 * You can run into problems if you didn't install all the requirements, double check your configs or check if skipped a command.

There are also a few known issues when hosting through Heroku, you can find the list in [this issue](https://github.com/avaire/avaire/issues/56).

If you want to use the API for AvaIre, disable the worker dyno and enable the web dyno. Keep in mind that web dynos do not stay up forever and set themselves to sleep after 30 minutes of inactivity. You can use [Kaffeine](http://kaffeine.herokuapp.com/) or [Uptime Robot](https://uptimerobot.com/) to get around this.

Commit message:

Update guide to use Pull app for updating (#8)
Since Backstroke has shut down, I'm changing the update method for selfhosting on Heroku. The nice thing is that its much quicker to set up than Backstroke and much more configurable. I would appreciate it if someone would test these instructions to make sure they work.

heroku-guide.md, after:

# Heroku Guide

- [Hosting from source](#hosting-from-source)
  - [Prerequisites](#hosting-from-source-prerequisites)
    - [Software](#hosting-from-source-software)
  - [AvaIre](#hosting-from-source-avaire)
    - [Updating with Heroku](#hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy)
    - [Updating with Pull App](#hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-pull)
      - [Small note](#hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-note)
  - [Watchdog](#hosting-from-source-watchdog)
    - [Deploy method](#hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy)
      - [Small note](#hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy-note)
- [Hosting from a jar](#hosting-from-a-jar)
  - [Prerequisites](#hosting-from-a-jar-prerequisites)
    - [Software](#hosting-from-a-jar-software)
  - [AvaIre](#hosting-from-a-jar-avaire)
  - [Watchdog](#hosting-from-a-jar-watchdog)
- [Troubleshooting](#trouble-shooting)

<a name="hosting-from-source"></a>
## Hosting from source
> {tip} When you choose to host from source, it's recommended to get a GitHub account, as you can use this to fork the repo and keep AvaIre up to date more easily. 

<a name="hosting-from-source-prerequisites"></a>
### Prerequisites

> {tip} This guide assumes you already have a basic understanding of how Heroku works, how to fill in the config.yml file/environment variables and that you have a Heroku account.
>
> It's however not required to have a credit card linked to it, but it's recommended so you have enough hours to keep AvaIre working throughout the month.

<a name="hosting-from-source-software"></a>
#### Software
 * No software is actually needed. Everything is done through the browser.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire"></a>
### AvaIre
When, using AvaIre from source, you are able to use the deploy button, and still have full control over the source, allowing you to make your own changes.
However, updating is slightly more complicated, as you need to make sure to get the changes to Heroku. There is a solution to this where we get back to in a bit.

Navigate to [AvaIre's repo](https://github.com/avaire/avaire) and click on the **deploy to Heroku** button.

After you're done filling in the environment variables, you can click on deploy. After your AvaIre is deployed on Heroku, click on Manage App.

Now you've successfully configured AvaIre on Heroku. You can see her logs by clicking on: **More** on the top right, followed by clicking on **View logs**. If you want to turn off AvaIre, click on **Resources**, followed by clicking on the pen, clicking on the toggle, and clicking on **confirm**.

To keep AvaIre up-to-date, go to [AvaIre's main repo](https://github.com/avaire/avaire) and click on **Fork**. Once it has been forked, go to your repo's settings and turn on the issues feature. This is to notify you of any merge conflicts if you're using Heroku Scheduler to update. 

Now go back to Heroku and click on **deploy** followed by clicking on **Connect to GitHub**, and login if necessary. Click on **Search** and connect the repo that you just forked.

Make sure the right branch is chosen (master in this case). You can click on **Enable Automatic Deploys**.

To make sure everything is still working, click on **Deploy Branch**, to start deploying from your own fork.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy"></a>
#### Updating with Heroku
> {tip} This part assumes you have a GitHub account, as well as a _working_ AvaIre hosted on Heroku.

Once deployment is successful, you need to create a [personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens) with public_repo permissions so Heroku can automatically update your repo. Once you create your personal access token, copy it to the GITHUB_SECRET_TOKEN variable in your Heroku app settings.

When that's done, copy part of the link to your main repo after `https://github.com/` (e.g `chaNcharge/avaire`) and paste it to the GITHUB_REPO environment variable in your Heroku app settings.

Then, go to Heroku Scheduler add-on settings by clicking on its link.

Add a new job, and set the command to `./update.sh`. You can change the other settings to your preference.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-pull"></a>
#### Updating with Pull App
> {tip} This part assumes you have a GitHub account, as well as a _working_ AvaIre hosted on Heroku. This option is recommended if you want to manually review changes before updating.

Once deployment is successful, install the [Pull App](https://github.com/apps/pull) and login with GitHub.

You can choose to install on all repositories or only selected repositories. It's recommended you install on select repositories to keep things organized; In this case, check **Only select repositories** and select your fork. 

When you've selected your repository to install in, click **Install**.

Your fork should automatically update and merge with your repository. You can edit the `pull.yml` config in the `.github` directory to your preference. For example, if you don't want Pull to auto merge updates and you want to manually review them, you can change the `autoMerge` option from `true` to `false`.

<a name="hosting-from-source-avaire-deploy-note"></a>
#### Small note
If you changed some files in your fork, it's possible that you will have a merge conflict. If you are using Heroku Scheduler to update, an issue will be automatically created under your name in your repo's issue tracker. You have to manually fix this yourself by following the tips/FAQ GitHub gives you and merge it manually through the command line or GitHub desktop app.

<a name="hosting-from-source-watchdog"></a>
### Watchdog
When using Watchdog from source, you are able to use the deploy button, and still have full control over the source of Watchdog. Allowing you to make your own changes. You are however not able to change the source of AvaIre.

However, updating is slightly more complicated, as you need to make sure to get the changes to Heroku. There is a solution to this where we get back to in a bit.
As Watchdog downloads AvaIre.jar after it detects it's missing. This method will always give you the latest versions, without any hassle. Watchdog itself however still would lack updating itself.

Navigate to [Watchdog's main repo](https://github.com/avaire/watchdog) and click on the **deploy to Heroku** button.
After you're done filling in the environment variables, you can click on **deploy**. After your Watchdog instance is deployed on Heroku, click on **Manage App**.

Now you've successfully configured Watchdog on Heroku. You can see her logs by click on: **More** on the top right, followed by clicking on **View logs**.

If you want to turn off Watchdog, click on **Resources**, followed by clicking on the **pen**, then clicking on the button, and lastly click on **confirm**.

<a name="hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy"></a>
#### Deploy method
> {tip} This part assumes you have a GitHub account, as well as a _working_ AvaIre hosted on Heroku.

To keep Watchdog up-to-date, after following the above method, go to [Watchdog's main repo](https://github.com/avaire/watchdog) and click on **Fork**.

Now go back to Heroku and click on **deploy** followed by clicking on **Connect to GitHub**, and login if necessary. Click on **Search** and connect the repo that you just forked.

Make sure the right branch is chosen (master in this case). You can click on **Enable Automatic Deploys**.

To make sure everything is still working, click on **Deploy Branch**, to start deploying from your own fork.

Once deployment is successful, install the [Pull App](https://github.com/apps/pull) and login with GitHub.

You can choose to install on all repositories or only selected repositories. It's recommended you install on select repositories to keep things organized; In this case, check **Only select repositories** and select your fork. 

When you've selected your repository to install in, click **Install**.

Your fork should automatically update and merge with your repository. You can edit the `pull.yml` config in the `.github` directory to your preference. For example, if you don't want Pull to auto merge updates and you want to manually review them, you can change the `autoMerge` option from `true` to `false`.

<a name="hosting-from-source-watchdog-deploy-note"></a>
#### Small note
If you changed some files in your fork, it's possible that you will have a merge conflict. You have to manually fix this yourself by following the tips/FAQ GitHub gives you on that pull and merging it manually through the command line or GitHub desktop app.

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar"></a>
## Hosting from a jar

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-prerequisites"></a>
### Prerequisites

> {tip} This guide assumes you already have a basic understanding of how Heroku works, and how to fill in the config.yml file/environment variables.
>
> It's also required that you have a Heroku account.
> 
> It's however not required to have a credit card linked to it, but it's recommended so you have enough hours to keep AvaIre working throughout the month.

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-software"></a>
#### Software

 * [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
 * [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#download-and-install)

> {tip} Make sure to [set a username in git](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-your-username-in-git/), as well as to login [into the Heroku CLI tool](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#getting-started).

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-avaire"></a>
### AvaIre

First, download the [AvaIre.jar](https://avairebot.com/nightly-build.jar), the [config.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/avaire/master/src/main/resources/config.yml) and the [Procfile](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/avaire/master/Procfile).
Put these all in a folder, then open within this folder git bash/commandprompt. Do the following to create a heroku application, set the buildpacks, etc.
```
git init
heroku apps:create NAMEHEROKUAPP --region eu
heroku addons:create jawsdb:kitefin
heroku buildpacks:set heroku/jvm
```
Replace NAMEHEROKUAPP with a name you like, lowercase only. Optionally you change the region to `us` if that's closer to your servers.

You can ether fill in the config.yml file, or set the env variables yourself by using:
`heroku config:set AVA_NAMEVARIABLE=VALUEVARIABLE`

So for setting the token, you would type in:
`heroku config:set AVA_DISCORD_TOKEN=myt0ken`

Here is [the list of all the environment variables AvaIre uses](https://github.com/avaire/avaire/blob/master/app.json).

To push your changes, do the following in the same terminal:
```
git add .
git commit -am "First commit!"
git push heroku master
```

Whenever you change some of the files, you only have to repeat the above part.

You can start AvaIre by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=1`

And stop her by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=0`

To tail the logs trough the terminal you can type in:
`heroku logs --tail`

<a name="hosting-from-a-jar-watchdog"></a>
### Watchdog

First, download the [Watchdog.jar](https://github.com/avaire/watchdog/releases), the [config.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/avaire/master/src/main/resources/config.yml) and the [Procfile](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avaire/watchdog/master/Procfile).
Put these all in a folder, then open within this folder git bash/commandprompt. Do the following to create a heroku application, set the buildpacks, etc.
```
git init
heroku apps:create NAMEHEROKUAPP --region eu
heroku addons:create jawsdb:kitefin
heroku buildpacks:set heroku/jvm
```
Replace NAMEHEROKUAPP with a name you like, lowercase only. Optionally you change the region to `us` if that's closer to your servers.

You can ether fill in the config.yml file, or set the env variables yourself by using:
`heroku config:set AVA_NAMEVARIABLE=VALUEVARIABLE`

So for setting the token, you would type in:
`heroku config:set AVA_DISCORD_TOKEN=myt0ken`

Here is [the list of all the environment variables AvaIre uses](https://github.com/avaire/avaire/blob/master/app.json).

To push your changes, do the following in the same terminal:
```
git add .
git commit -am "First commit!"
git push heroku master
```

Whenever you change some of the files, you only have to repeat the above part.

You can start Watchdog by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=1`

And stop Watchdog by doing:
`heroku ps:scale worker=0`

To tail the logs trough the terminal you can type in:
`heroku logs --tail`

<a name="trouble-shooting"></a>
## Troubleshooting
 * Make sure you are logged in. You can log in with the `heroku login` command.
 * You can find your logs by typing: heroku logs --tail. It's recommended to start logging before pushing/start your app.
 * You can run into problems if you didn't install all the requirements, double check your configs or check if skipped a command.

There are also a few known issues when hosting through Heroku, you can find the list in [this issue](https://github.com/avaire/avaire/issues/56).

If you want to use the API for AvaIre, disable the worker dyno and enable the web dyno. Keep in mind that web dynos do not stay up forever and set themselves to sleep after 30 minutes of inactivity. You can use [Kaffeine](http://kaffeine.herokuapp.com/) or [Uptime Robot](https://uptimerobot.com/) to get around this.
